(Post) 2020-04-09 Status Update (#46)
puppetlabs/iac: _posts/2020-04-09-status-update.md

## Community Contributions

As always, we work hand-in-hand with the broader Puppet community to get work done.
This week, we want to take a moment to highlight a few PRs and the people behind them!

First up, a [pull request to the puppetlabs/docker module][community-seriv-pr] by [Sergey Ivanov][community-seriv].
Sergey's work enabled the module to function transparently on RedHat systems utilizing the [`podman-docker` package!][podman-docker].
Thank you, Sergey!

We'd like to thank [Atanas Stoyanov][community-amorphina] for [his fix to the Apache module][community-amorphina-pr].
This PR ensures that the custom ldap options in `/etc/apache2/mods` can actually be applied and loaded, fixing a previously unknown bug!
Thank you, Atanas!

Finally, big Thanks to [Frank Wall][community-fraenki] for [his PR][community-fraenki-pr] that will fix [MODULES-10023][modules-10023], ensuring that the xtrabackup functionality in [puppetlabs/mysql][puppetlabs/mysql] actually works as intended!
Thank you, Frank!

## Supported Module Litmus Conversion

On the topic of [Litmus][litmus-gem-home], we're continuing to make progress on the conversion of all supported modules to the framework:

> - [puppetlabs/reboot][puppetlabs/reboot] is completed, running against all 33 of the supported platforms!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [puppetlabs/reboot][puppetlabs/reboot] is nearing completion, running against all 33 of the supported platforms!
```
😢

Author: If we merge slowly enough, it might be true!

Reviewer: 😆 True that. I just think it would be a bit too tight to state this week, but, I certainly would say 100% guaranteed for next week's blog post (NOW I HAVE THE PRESSURE ON ME!).

- [puppetlabs/websphere_application_server][puppetlabs/websphere_application_server] is wrapped!
- [puppetlabs/satellite_pe_tools][puppetlabs/satellite_pe_tools] is still progressing nicely!
- [puppetlabs/ibm_installation_manager][puppetlabs/ibm_installation_manager] is in progress now!

> After that, we'll be moving on to

Reviewer: Placeholder or copy/pasta?

Author: Failed to delete, was a sentence I started and forgot about, good catch!

## Puppet + DSC: Phase II Begins!

> [michaeltlombardi][puppet-michael] has continued to make excellent progress on our [refactor of DSC support][iac-41] in Puppet as we step in [Phase II][iac-685]!

Reviewer: Given you're the author, I'm wondering if you want to state, "I've continued to make great progress on..." or something along those lines?

Author: I think I'll change this out for `we` to be honest. It's a team effort.

Reviewer: I still think you deserve 100% of the credit, so I wouldn't change that fact. Maybe as we contribute more in future iterations, but this has been you doing the lion's share of the work!

The technical work this week has largely been in the de-prototyping details as we work to [convert the prototype build script into a supportable PowerShell module][iac-650].
We [scaffolded the module][dsc-pr-module-scaffold] out using [Fred Weinmann's][ps-fred] [PSFramework module][ps-fred-psframework], giving us some nice automatic testing and a bunch of options to improve UX down the road (including layered configurations and tab completion).
We [added our first sets of test code][dsc-pr-first-tests], [added a Vagrantfile][dsc-pr-vagrantfile] to the repository to make the development process easier on our team, and [enabled on-PR testing in Appveyor][dsc-pr-appveyor] to ensure we don't introduce regressions.

Work is currently underway to [decompose the module vendoring code][dsc-pr-vendoring] from the build script into a function in the module for ease of maintenance and testability.
Additionally, the [replacement of the extant templating engine is also underway][dsc-pr-templating] to reduce complexity and dependencies for the module.

> But the biggest milestone this week has been bringing on board Puppet's own [Gene Liverman][puppet-gene], [John O'Connor][puppet-john], and the rest of our Devoper Infrastructre & Operations Team as Customer 0 for this work, ensuring that we get live feedback as early as possible for our updated methodology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But the biggest milestone this week has been bringing on board Puppet's own [Gene Liverman][puppet-gene], [John O'Connor][puppet-john], and the rest of our Developer Infrastructre & Operations Team as Customer 0 for this work, ensuring that we get live feedback as early as possible for our updated methodology.
```

Author: 😭

```

With one using the beta modules, like this!

```puppet
define profile::network::windows_interface (
  Array[Stdlib::IP::Address]    $ipaddress,
  String[1]                     $interfacealias,
  Enum['IPv4','IPv6']           $addressfamily = 'IPv4',
  Optional[Stdlib::IP::Address] $gw_address = undef,
){

  dsc_ipaddress {"${name}-ip-address":
    dsc_ipaddress      => $ipaddress,
    dsc_interfacealias => $interfacealias,
    dsc_addressfamily  => $addressfamily,
  }

  if $gw_address {
    dsc_defaultgatewayaddress {"${name}-default-gw":
      dsc_address        => $gw_address,
      dsc_interfacealias => $interfacealias,
      dsc_addressfamily  => $addressfamily,
    }
  }
}
```

If you're interested in joining our beta program, which we will be launching in earnest after Easter, please [email us][dsc-email] ([dsc@puppet.com][dsc-email]) and let us know:

1. What are the top three PowerShell modules with DSC resources you'd like to see Puppetized?
2. Are you interested in joining our beta test group for this ongoing project?

If you just wanna keep an eye on things, you can follow the repository on GitHub and the [parent epic in JIRA][iac-41]!

## PowerShell 101 Training

> In addition to helping oversee the DSC work, Michael just wrapped up running the team through his [PowerShell 101 Course][pwshop], which focuses on helping with the "blinking cursor" problem:

Reviewer: Again, feel free to ignore, but similar to my earlier comment, do you want to change the perspective seeing you're the author? Not something I feel overly strongly about, so feel free to ignore 😄

Author: This one I can definitely replace. 🙂
